---
layout: post
title:  "Ship Miner Roadmap"
date:   2025-01-01 00:00:00 -0300
excerpt: In this blog post I will share what happened during 2024 and my plan for 2025.
author: Ariel Coppes
tags:
  - personal
  - update
  - review
  - nontechnical
image:
  path: /images/2023-post-preview.jpg
  height: 100 
  width: 100
---

## Ship Miner's Roadmap

When talking specifically on what's ahead for Ship Miner to get into EA, I have a simplified Roadmap not necessarily ordered.

### Travel to different asteroids during a run

Right now the game is all in one asteroid, I want to add deciding and traveling to different asteroids but at the same time I am not sure if the game needs it. The main idea is to pick the destination based on some information, similar to FTL, like more dangerous but high in one mineral, and also to allow me to grow in by creating different game modes like removing permanent fog reveal or having to do something different like saving another ship miner in trouble, etc.

### Upgrades 2.0

Define how they are unlocked and improved. There is a version right now where you kinda level up by mining and randomly unlock stuff but it is a temporary thing, one of the ideas in mind is to give the player some decision when unlocking, from a pool of upgrades/things to build, like each time you level up the game presents some options between unlocking a new upgrade, upgrading an upgrade you already have or unlocking a buildable, or anything else. 

### Save and exit the game

Want to define if the game should have or not savegame ingame, that means to leave the game in the middle of a run and comeback later to continue. Why? because maybe it if each asteroid mining is short enough, it could be like a commitment to enter the game and play for 5 to 10 mins. But at the same time I am a parent of two that can't play games for more than 5 mins sometimes xD, and it is cool if you can just turn off the game and come back later and just continue where you were at.

### Sound Effects 2.0

Right now the game has some basic sound effects generated by [jsfxr](https://sfxr.me/) or by my recording my voice and applying some filters. With Esteban (Unfold), the music composer, we are going to integrate FMOD and give him as much control as possible to improve and make more professional sound effects.

### Procedural generation 2.0

The game right now has only procedural generation on minerals and other content in the level but not the asteroid structure/layout, the idea is to work in that part generating different layouts to increase the value in exploring the asteroid.

### Metagame and Player Progression

Define how deep I want to go with metagame. I will have basic things for sure in terms of unlocking achievements and maybe information about the world but I want to define if the player is also gonna unlock stuff to help changing the game over time, like enter the game with some upgrades unlocked already or maybe changing the ship to have another configuration, etc.

### More Content & Options

This is an ongoing objective, but the game needs more content for sure in order to be released and something I will work on during all development. And also in terms of options like changing controls,

### Performance Optimizations

Even though the game looks like it is not heavy, it processes a lot of systems and will process more, so I have to work on this point during all the development too.

### Tutorial, Steamworks & Demo

Game is clear in some points but not so much in others, once I work a iterate a couple of times and define some missing points, I will create a Tutorial to help introduce the complex things of the game to new players.

And this one too but if not, it is mainly integrate with the Steamworks SDK in order to have things like cloud save and achievements, among others. 

And also think about publishing a Demo of the game that could help in getting more wishlists and prepare for the EA release.

### Multiple Languages

Last but not least, create the platform to support multiple languages and also start adding those over time, the idea is to release in EA with at least a couple of languages and grow with more languages for the final release of the game.

## To conclude

This blog post was mainly to share what happened in 2024 and the plan for 2025. A lot could change but I believe the main idea will be the same.

Thanks for reading!